# 20180526  分享常识vs说服
20180526  周六  天气：晴天
***
0526
Has he ever tried to understand me?
He uses all his energy on hating and blaming me

20180526
I cannot talk to him because he's resentment towards me. He doesn't listen with heart.he listen with emotion.
So he never gets what I mean.
And that's why we easy get fight when we talk to each other. And we seem good when we don't talk much.
Every time in session,i was trying to think about what to do next, did you ever see him consider that?
What else did he try except say sorry and tell me what to do.
Did you ever hear him asking what can he do to work through this?
No.
Because he thinks it's all my fault and only me need to change and do the work.
He's just helping me.
He does not think there's anything he need to do.
He thinks if I change .problems gone.
And we've talked about the definition of problem solved.
He thinks that as long as you know it's a problem and say sorry. That means the problem is solved.
He's confused when I say that it's not.
But that's how he understand about problem.
He thinks if he has understood that it's a problem, and he know why, and say sorry,at that moment, problem is solved.
He doesn't understand why he needs to practice everyday even he is not in problem and the last problem is solved.
We are together for 4 years, we had a lot of conversations and a lot of fights.
I don't know what he think towards me most of the time.
But I remember his words.
He has a lot of beliefs that sounds not true.
That is WHAT I tried to change.
But I did not expect that would turn him into an enemy.
I'm not professional, I didn't know the right way.
And now,he doesn't listen to any sentence of me.
That's why I want him to see you.
You can tell how false some of his belief is.
He might listen and think about it because it's not me.
I will tell you some of his opion he insisted in the past.(And we've fighted around all those beliefs)
And the result is he still insist them, and think I am denying him all the time,and generated resent towsrds me.
I know there are no absolut right and wrong in the world , but his belief, a lot of them are against the common sense.
He took me as an enemy when I tried to tell him those common sense.
Like what is communication?
What means problem solved?
What is time?
What is love?
He's lack of common sense concerning relationship. No matter family,friends or couples.
He's also lack of common sense on self.
so everytime we talk, it easily turn into fight because when I try to point out some of his beliefs are not true.
I think he needs some real lesson about relationship (with others and with self).
He behaved like very generous when facing others,but actually he's always self-centered when he make decision.

* 1.He doesn't tell his boss or askfor leave when he doesn't want to go to work. He just left.
* 2.When he wants to leave his last company,he just stop to go to work without ask for leave or tell anybody,except me.
I told him to go back before he tell the boss he's leaving and the boss said yes.
If not,he would just stop going without telling anyone.
* 3.when we might be late for session because he's doing a report.he doesn't say anything to you.
* 4.He didn't try to do anything when his sister told him that she's going to get a divorce.
His sister has been complaining him for not caring about the family for long time.
He does not talk to his friends as long as they don't talk to him.
He doesn't care about his friends.
He doesn't listen,he's always doing other things when I was talking.
Communication for him means he talk and ideas get accepted,when others talk just say yes.

20180526
Just figure out that when you realize that you did sth wrong you are going to talk first.
If not,you are not going to talk. Because you still had angry in your heart towards the other person.
Is his pain really from me?
If he keeps believe that, he's going to sspend a lot of energy and time on hating and confronting me.
And never work on dealing and getting along with himself.
I know exactly when we will be OK.
That's when I don't ask questions,
when I don't share, and don't waitfor response.
But that's also when we don't have connection.
I stopped ask and sharing for one month, and I asked one question , shared one opion, he got angry. Everthing went back again.
It's not called problem solved,it's called problem covered.
I think he's trapped in his social self and lizard brain. He has no connection with his essential self. He consider that strange power as his essential self. But I know it'snot.
He insists that the stubbon, vicious,relentless one is the real him, and he's trying hard to protect it by going against me.
I have the feeling that he's just trapped by some kind of monster.
He asked me"why should I tell you that?"
That refers to his family,his feelings,his attitudes towards things,his reason for making decisions.
I felt I know nothing about him except some of his behavior and thinking mode through years of observation and fighting.
Those inner things,his feelings,his thoughts his attitudes , I know nothing.
He give up his power and then blame me for controlling him.
You heard things from his perspective. So you are with him.
I see different things.
I want my choice to describe it.
***
## 今日大略
今天本来约好了和Nancy看电影，结果因为两个人闹矛盾，活动临时取消。

1.早晨8:24醒，躺到8:45才起来。早餐吃了三明治和炒饭，然后背了单词。洗漱完之后做了一组冥想练习，然后开始刷知乎，一刷就是1个半小时，停下来的时候已经将近下午2点。

2.下午睡了1个小时的午觉，起来吃了个炒饭。然后继续在微信上读《我这一辈子》，读了2个半小时。之后18:16出门去洗衣房，在椭圆机上运动了1小时。晚饭还是吃了炒饭。

3.晚上8点半开始，躺着听了3个多小时的《离婚》，一直到23:50。之后洗脸刷牙睡了觉。
***

## 记录信息

20180613周三  20:47-21:03    16分钟
